# RNG
This is the Random Number Generator (RNG) that is used within my applications.  It is a collection of different methods of generating a random number.
Everytime a number is generated, it will randomly select which of these methods are used; and then generate the random number using the selected method.

The following methods are in use:
- [Microsoft Random Class](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.random)
- [Microsoft RNGCryptoServiceProvider Class](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.security.cryptography.rngcryptoserviceprovider)

At the core, the random number generated is of type long. This provides a maximum random number from -9,223,372,036,854,775,808 to
9,223,372,036,854,775,807.  Different data types are generated by converting to the long data type, generating the number, then converting back
to the original data type.

## Microsoft Random Class
The Microsoft Random Class is based on a modified version of Donald E. Knuth's subtractive random number generator algorithm. The chosen numbers are
not completely random because a mathematical algorithm is used to select them, but they are sufficiently random for practical purposes.

### Pros
- This can be used for just about any data type, including strings and arrays.
- The implementation of different data types are built into the class.

### Cons
- The numbers generated are relatively easy to predict.
- Using the same seed will generate the same sequence of numbers.

## Microsoft RNGCryptoServiceProvider Class
The Microsoft RNGCryptoServiceProvider Class implements a cryptographic Random Number Generator (RNG) using the implementation provided by the
cryptographic service provider (CSP).

### Pros
- The output is cryptographically strong random values.

### Cons
- The random generator only generates bytes, so the different data types need to be built to accomidate how the data is stored.  For example,
  to generate a random integer, an array of 4 bytes need to be used instead of 1.
- Additional functionality needs to be created to handle a fairly generated number.  A fair selection is considered to be from a full sequence
of values.

For example:
If the number of selections is 6, every 6th selection would represent a new sequence:
- 1 = 1, 2 = 2, 3 = 3, 4 = 4, 5 = 5, 6 = 6
- 7 = 1, 8 = 2, 9 = 3, 10 = 4, 11 = 5, 12 = 6
- ...
- 252 = 1, 253 = 2, 254 = 3, 255 = 4
A selection of 1 - 12 would be fair because all 6 numbers are potentially available.

If the number selected is 253, this is NOT fair because not all numbers are potentially available, only 1 - 4 are available.

=============

# How to compile
This was created in Microsoft Visual Studio Community 2019.  Open the file SQLiteAPI.sln in Visual Studio and compile the project.
